When async/await was added to JavaScript,
it was very exciting.
This was a feature that had already seen success after being added to
other languages and was much looked forward to in the JavaScript community.
With some of that excitement though,
you began to see the async/await syntax popping up everywhere,
and in some cases popping up even where it maybe shouldn't.
So how can you know when you should or shouldn't use async/await?
We've already touched on this a little in previous sections,
but let's take a look at some of the facts we already know
about this syntax and draw some conclusions.
Async/await is a great idea if you need
the results from multiple promises to be used together.
Like the math example we saw at the beginning of the lesson,
there was no way to get around waiting for both of
the values to be ready in order to do math on them.
This is a clear sign that async/await is the syntax to choose.
If you need to perform a lot of logic
sequentially and each step relies on a previous step,
this is also a sign that async/await is the correct style.
Lastly, the logic that would have gone into a then()/ catch(),
might be written more concisely or cleanly in a regular function.
This one goes back to your personal preference for or against then Jane's.
But you can try it both ways and see which syntax you think is cleaner.
On the other hand, you should take a moment to think
before using async/await if any of these are true.
First, think about if the function needs to use await.
We add async before a function to be able to use the word await
before promises and other async functions to handle them in asynchronous fashion.
It stands to reason then that if your function does
not have any asynchronous actions to await,
you shouldn't be throwing the async word on there.
Second, if you want a function to return a promise,
create a promise with the promise syntax we saw in the last lesson.
Using the async word to force a function to return a promise,
is in my mind at least an anti-pattern that should be avoided.
Last, this is more of a word of caution instead of a rule.
But before going wild with the async paintbrush and asyncing all the things,
stop to consider, what happens when you put
async in front of a function that had previously not been async?
Yes, it will now return a promise where maybe it used to return a value.
If you haven't accounted for this difference,
you could cause chaos in your programs by turning things async.
In general, you can use async/await anywhere you would use promises and it will work.
But taking a minute to ask yourself what syntax is best for the job,
could save you a lot of trouble.